Fixed & Synced by bozxphd. Enjoy The Flick.
(SOFTLY) Captain!
(ALL GASP)
(CHITTERS)
Is that a trench?
It looks like there's
more of them inside.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
Echo 2-6 to command.
(MUFFLED RESPONSE)
Colonel, we've got eyes on
three Kong in the north woods.
One of them is armed.
And our donkey
just spotted another trench.
Maybe the base is near.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir, copy. Over.
Hey, donkey.
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
Preacher.
The one with the gun.
As soon as the gunner's down,
you guys take out the trench.
Yes, sir.
(HORSE NEIGHS)
CAPTAIN: Fire!
Come on!
(SOLDIERS YELLING)
(CHITTERING)
(CONTINUES CHITTERING)
(SOLDIERS YELLING)
(INDISTINCT YELLING)
(SCREAMING)
(WHOOPING)
Reload!
(MUFFLED SCREAMING)
(GROANING)
Fall back! Fall back!
(SOLDIERS GROANING AND SCREAMING)
(PANTING)
Colonel, do you copy?
Colonel!
THE COLONEL: Who is this?
Preacher, sir!
It's Preacher!
Where are you, soldier?
I need your position.
I don't know!
What do you see?
I can't see anything, sir.
We lost a lot of men,
and the captain is dead, sir.
Okay, calm down.
You're in command now.
Command, sir?
I think it's just me
all by myself now.
(DISTORTED) Take control.
Colonel, I don't think
I'm gonna make it, sir.
I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry, sir.
Listen to me.
You kill as many as you can.
(GRUNTING)
No! No, no!
You're him.
You're Caesar.
We've been searching
for you for so long.
We heard you had
a hidden command base.
But we could never find it.
Some of us started to think
that you might be dead.
But Colonel McCullough said
you were out here somewhere.
TRAVIS: Just kill us already.
LANG: Shut up, man!
What? They're animals.
He's gonna slaughter us.
I did not start this war.
The ape who did is dead.
His name was Koba.
I killed him.
Now, I fight only...
to protect apes.
Yeah?
What about him?
We've got 10 more
just like him.
I know these apes.
They follow Koba.
They tried to kill me.
They fear
what I will do to them.
So now, they serve you.
Just to survive.
I don't fear you.
(APES CHITTERING)
You must fear.
How long you think
woods can protect you?
Humans destroy you.
Their Kerna has all power.
For them,
he more than just human.
He everything.
He say: first Caesar die...
then all of you die.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
You're letting us go?
Tell your Colonel
you have seen me now...
and I have a message for him.
Leave us the woods,
and the killing can stop.
They are the message,
Maurice.
He will see
we are not savages.
(WINTER CHITTERING)
(HUFFS)
CAESAR: Koba...
still haunts us.
Why didn't I see...
that he could not forgive
what humans did to him?
(GRUNTS)
(HORN BLOWING)
(CHITTERING)
(ALL CHITTERING)
(BOTH BREATHING HEAVILY)
Welcome home, Rocket.
You look tired.
Come.
(ALL CHITTERING)
(CHITTERING)
Yes.
We must find a safe way
out of the woods.
There were only two of you.
But we are... many.
We will find a way
out of here.
Apes together...
strong.
(ALL CHITTERING)
(RAGGED BREATHING)
(GASPS)
(GROWLS)
Luca, get Rocket, too.
(GASPS)
(GRUNTING)
Lima four to command.
Colonel, did you... (GRUNTS)
(GRUNTING)
CAESAR: Rocket!
What happened?
THE COLONEL:
99, target acquired.
99, target acquired. Repeat.
King Kong is dead.
Let's go.
I can get out from here.
(GRUNTING)
(APES HOWLING)
(HUFFING)
(YELLING)
(GASPING)
(PANTING)
(SIGHS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(RUSTLING)
(PANTING)
(SIGHING)
(STUTTERS) Cornelius!
(CORNELIUS CRYING)
You're safe now.
Lake...
You loved my son.
Look after his brother
until I return.
No.
Go with Lake.
Not them. Him.
You must.
The soldiers
will be back soon.
When I find him...
the soldiers will
all come after me.
That may give you
the best chance
to get out of the woods.
No.
I may not make it back.
CAESAR: Search the area.
I'm just gonna
put this down.
(GUNSHOTS)
(GROANS)
(ALL EXCLAIM IN SURPRISE)
(CLATTERING)
(CHITTERING)
Look around.
Take what you can.
(MUTTERS)
(GRUNTS)
(STRAINING)
(CHITTERS)
(CHITTERING)
Come.
We cannot take her, Maurice.
(SCOFFS)
(CAESAR BREATHING HEAVILY)
CAESAR: No.
Winter.
(CAESAR BREATHING HEAVILY)
(GASPS)
Where's the Colonel?
Gone?
What border? Why?
My son...
my wife...
are dead.
(GASPS)
(WHIMPERING)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(GRUNTING)
(CHOKING)
(MUFFLED GRUNTING)
Koba!
Ape...
not kill ape.
(GASPS)
(MAURICE CHITTERING)
(INDISTINCT YELLING)
They stopped.
(MUFFLED GUNSHOTS)
Get down!
(GIRL GASPS)
(MUFFLED GUNSHOTS CONTINUE)
I don't know.
(GASPS)
(CHITTERING)
(GROANING)
(SOLDIER PANTING)
Why did they shoot you?
(MUMBLING)
Luca...
Winter said they were
going to a border.
(ROARING)
(GIRL GASPS)
(URGING HORSES)
(CHITTERS)
(SOFT CLATTERING)
(COCKS GUN)
(SNARLING)
Bad Ape!
Bad Ape.
Are you alone here?
(CHITTERING)
Cold?
Cold.
I see girl,
I think you human.
But you ape.
Like me.
No, put down.
How long have
you been here?
Long time.
Long, long time.
(EXCLAIMS EXCITEDLY)
Home.
Old home.
Are there more like you?
More apes from zoo.
Dead. All dead.
Long time.
Human get sick.
Ape get smart.
Then human kill ape.
But not me.
I run.
You learn to speak...
Listen. Human...
"Bad Ape!"
Bad Ape. Huh?
(SCRAPING)
No.
No touch.
(STUTTERS) That's mine.
(THUDDING)
(BAD APE GRUNTS)
BAD APE: I'm okay!
(CLATTERING)
Eat! Eat.
(PANTING)
New friends.
Special day.
Where did you get this?
Bad place.
I find long time ago.
After zoo, I look for food...
I find human zoo.
Zoo for sick.
Big walls.
Sick human climb.
Bad human kill.
And then, all get sick.
All dead now for a long time.
Long time.
Bad humans?
Soldiers?
Soldiers.
Is it far? Can you take us?
Human zoo?
No. No, no go back there.
Everyone dead. I come here.
Very safe here.
Never go back.
Please, you must take us!
No! No! Cannot take!
(CHITTERING)
Cannot take. No! No!
Look! Look!
More snow. Cannot go.
Must stay.
You eat, you rest.
Stay here with me.
Here, you keep.
She keep.
BAD APE: Who is...
child?
I don't know.
But she with you.
She has no one else.
I see you look at her
just now.
Look sad.
You have child?
One.
The other was
killed by human.
Soldier?
I had child.
You think
you will find him...
at human zoo?
With soldier?
I don't know.
Maybe.
Then...
maybe I take you.
(GRUNTS)
(CHITTERS)
(DISTANT INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
Luca, come.
Let's go closer.
Keep them safe.
(CONVERSATIONS CONTINUE)
I don't know.
CAESAR: I don't see riders.
(SOLDIER GRUNTS)
Hold it! (GROANS)
(LUCA GROANS)
(GROANING)
(CRYING)
(CONTINUES CRYING)
They must pay.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
It was a mistake
bringing you all.
This is my fight.
I will finish this alone.
Go.
Now!
Join the others.
(CHITTERING)
(PANTING)
(GASPING)
What happened?
(BREATHING SHARPLY)
(COUGHING)
Use you?
What...
What kind of work?
Wait.
My little son. Is he here?
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(CAESAR GRUNTS)
THE COLONEL: Grant and Lee...
Wellington...
and Napoleon...
Custer...
and Sitting Bull...
You're probably
not much of a reader.
But this is a big moment.
Where were you?
We came upon your herd.
We got lucky.
But I was surprised
you weren't with them.
(GRUNTING)
SOLDIER: Hey, hey, hey!
I hope you don't come
to regret sparing his life.
He's quite a good shot.
Have you finally come
to save your apes?
I came for you.
For me?
Who did I kill that night?
My wife.
My son.
I'm sorry.
I was there for you.
My God.
Look at your eyes.
Almost human.
How did you know
I was here?
I was told you were coming.
That more soldiers
from the North...
would be joining you here.
Joining me?
To finish us off.
For good.
Who told you that?
Okay.
Let's go.
(CAESAR GRUNTING)
(INDISTINCT TAUNTING)
(APES CHITTERING)
(GRUNTS)
(SIGHS)
Lake...
(CORNELIUS CHITTERING)
What have I done?
Battalion, halt!
Blood!
SOLDIERS:
Makes the grass grow!
We!
SOLDIERS: Make the blood flow!
COMMANDING OFFICER:
We are the beginning!
ALL: And the end!
(ALL CHEERING)
(CHEERING STOPS)
(WHISTLE BLOWING)
(ANTHEM PLAYING
OVER PA SYSTEM)
(SOLDIERS YELLING)
(ALL GRUNTING)
(CHITTERS)
Why do they need a wall?
BOYLE: Hey!
(APE CHITTERS)
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
(STRAINING)
(ALL SCREAMING)
(APES CHITTERING)
BOYLE: Hey!
Donkey!
Get him.
Okay, okay, okay...
(RED DONKEY GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
(GROANING)
(WHIPPING CONTINUES)
Leave him!
(APE CHITTERS)
(ALL CHITTERING)
(ALL CONTINUE CHITTERING)
(GROANS)
(RED DONKEY YELLING)
(CHITTERING STOPS)
(WHIPPING)
(RED DONKEY GRUNTS)
(GRUNTS)
(CAESAR EXHALES)
Tell them to get back to work.
Apes need food and water.
Tell them.
Give them food...
and water.
(GUNSHOT)
(APE GRUNTS)
(APES CHITTERING)
Five...
Four...
(LAKE GRUNTS)
Three...
(LAKE PANTING)
Two...
(PANTING)
(GRUNTS)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
String him up, donkey.
Bad place.
(STUTTERING)
Bad, bad place.
What you see?
BAD APE: Oh, no!
(GRUNTS)
Why so small?
(GRUNTING)
Oh!
What did the Colonel
promise you?
You really think
he'll let you live...
after we are gone?
You let them
call you "donkey."
You are ape.
(GRUNTS)
Kerna want see you.
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING
ON SPEAKERS)
THE COLONEL: Interfere
with the work again...
and I'll begin slaughtering
the apes one by one.
Understand? I need that wall.
Apes need food and water.
They'll get food and water
when they finish their work.
Give apes food and water...
or they cannot finish.
You know,
you are very emotional.
What makes you think you're in
a position to make demands?
Okay, let's go.
The soldiers
who are coming here...
they are not coming
to join you, are they?
I saw men outside on the wall,
preparing for battle.
They told me you were smart...
but that's impressive.
No.
They won't be joining me.
They are against you?
They fear me.
CAESAR: Why?
Because you kill
your own men?
We found bodies.
Something wrong...
with these men.
Jesus Christ,
you are impressive.
Well, you paint
quite a picture.
What you must think of me.
I think you have no mercy.
You came here to kill me.
Were you gonna show me mercy?
I showed you mercy...
when I spared your men.
I offered you peace...
and you killed my family.
(EXHALES HEAVILY)
(SWITCH CLICKS)
(MUSIC STOPS)
THE COLONEL: Mercy.
You have any idea what
your mercy would do to us?
You're much stronger
than we are.
You're smart as hell.
No matter what you say,
you'd eventually replace us.
That's the law of nature.
The irony is,
we created you.
We tried to defy nature,
bend it to our will.
Nature has been punishing us
for our arrogance...
ever since.
10 months ago,
I sent out recon units
to look for your base.
My own son was a soldier
with one of the units.
One day he suddenly
stopped speaking.
He became primitive,
like an animal.
They contacted me and said
that they thought
he'd lost his mind.
That the war
was too much for him.
Then the man who cared for him
stopped speaking too.
Their medic had a theory,
before he stopped speaking...
that the virus
that almost wiped us out...
the virus that every human
survivor still carries...
had suddenly changed.
Mutated.
And that if it spread...
it would destroy humanity
for good this time.
Not by killing us...
but by robbing us of those
things that make us human.
Our speech,
our higher thinking...
It would turn us
into beasts.
You talk about mercy?
What would you have done?
It was a moment
of clarity for me.
I realized...
that I would have to
sacrifice my only son...
so that humanity
could be saved.
I held that gun in my hand...
for a long time.
I pointed it
at my only child...
he looked at me...
trust in his eyes.
Even in his primitive gaze...
I felt his... love.
(GULPS)
I pulled the trigger.
It purified me.
It made my purpose clear.
I gave the orders
to kill the other infected.
All of them.
Burn their belongings...
and anything that might
spread contamination.
Some of the men
questioned my judgment.
I was asking them to do
what I had done.
Sacrifice their friends...
their family.
Of course, they refused.
So I had them killed too.
Others with children...
deserted into the woods.
One of those cowards fled
to my superiors up North.
They tried to convince me
this plague could be
dealt with medically.
That's when I realized that
they had learned nothing...
from our past.
You killed them too?
What did I do, Preacher?
You severed their heads, sir.
Except for the one I spared...
so that he could return,
and deliver a message.
If they wanted to
relieve me of my command...
they would have to
meet me here...
and do it themselves.
This used to be
a weapons depot.
They turned it
into a relocation camp
when the crisis
was just beginning.
But the weapons
are still here...
inside the mountain.
CAESAR: How many men...
will be coming?
Probably all of them.
But don't get any ideas.
The only thing they fear more
than me is you apes.
This is... a holy war.
All of human history
has led to this moment.
If we lose...
we'll be the last
of our kind.
It will be a planet of apes.
And we will become
your cattle.
Look at you.
You think I'm sick,
don't you?
I didn't mean
to kill your son.
But if his destiny was to
inherit your unholy kingdom...
I'm glad I did it.
(GROWLS)
PREACHER: Hey! Hey!
Get back!
Donkey, hold him!
Hey!
(GROWLING)
(CHOKING)
So emotional!
I can see
how conflicted you are.
You're confused
in your purpose.
You are angry at me
for something I did
that was an act of war.
But you're taking this all
much too personally.
What do you think...
my men would have done to your
apes if you had killed me?
Or is killing me
more important?
(PANTING)
(SNIFFLES AND CHITTERS)
In? In?
No!
No go in! No...
(HORSE NEIGHS)
(PANTING)
Friends, friends!
No, no go in.
No go in... (YELPS)
Friend! Friend!
(BAD APE GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
Thank you, friend.
(GRUNTS SOFTLY)
(APES CHITTERING)
(WHISTLE BLOWING)
(GASPS AND COUGHS)
(PANTING)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
No! No! No!
No! No climb!
(CHITTERING)
What?
What you see?
(GRUNTS)
BAD APE: Oh, no, friend!
Oh...
No!
No! No!
No! Come! Come!
Come! Come back! Come!
No, come!
Come! Come! Come!
(SHIVERING)
Koba!
Sleep.
You cannot save them.
Apes all die here.
No!
Yes.
Join me.
(GRUNTING)
If he's still alive
in the morning...
he goes to work
like everyone else...
or you shoot him.
BAD APE: Come! Come, come.
She go in!
(WHIMPERING SOFTLY)
(SHALLOW BREATHING)
(BOTH CHITTER)
(DISTANT INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
Hide!
Quick!
(CHITTERING LOUDLY)
SOLDIER 1: Arms up! Hey! Hey!
SOLDIER 2: Arms up!
SOLDIER 3: Watch it! Watch it!
SOLDIER 2: Let's go!
Keep 'em up!
Follow him down.
SOLDIER 1: Keep them up!
(SNIFFS)
(RED DONKEY GRUNTS)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(GUNSHOT)
(PANTING)
Are there others out there?
Sweep the area.
Put him in the pen.
(GRUNTS)
(RED DONKEY GRUNTING)
(APES CHITTERING)
(SOFT CHUCKLE)
(SIGHS)
(BREATHING DEEPLY)
COMMANDING OFFICER:
We are the beginning!
SOLDIERS: And the end!
(ALL YELLING)
(THE COLONEL SCOFFS)
THE COLONEL: Still alive.
Send him to the quarry.
Alone.
Hold on.
What is this?
How did this get in there?
Get him to work.
(HEAVY BREATHING)
(GRUNTS)
You know...
Kerna shoot apes...
when war is done.
His war is madness.
It won't save him...
any more than
it will save you.
I save myself.
Is there anything
left of you to save?
(GRUNTS)
I do.
Nova.
(BAD APE GRUNTING)
Come! Come!
Come see!
Come! Come see!
34, 35, 36, 37...
37!
I do.
(MAURICE GRUNTS)
(CHUCKLES) What now?
(CHITTERS)
What?
Oh, no!
No, no!
No, no, no...
(GROWLS)
Okay.
(COUGHS)
Bad Ape.
(GRUNTS)
(BAD APE YELPS)
(CHITTERING)
(STUTTERING)
(STRAINING)
(ALL CHITTERING)
(CHITTERING STOPS)
(GASPS)
Hey!
You animals!
(GROANS)
Who did that?
Huh?
Who was it?
(APES CHITTERING)
Was it you?
(GRUNTS)
(YELPS)
(THUDS)
(GRUNTS)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(CORNELIUS COOING)
I love you, son.
(EXCITED CHITTERING)
Go, go, go.
Hurry, you must go.
Maurice was right.
I am...
like Koba.
He could not...
escape his hate.
And I still cannot
escape mine.
Go, go, go.
COMMANDER: Fire!
(ALARMS BLARING)
(BAD APE EXCLAIMING IN DISTRESS)
(OVERLAPPING YELLING)
EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
Colonel! Colonel!
Where the hell is he?
(BAD APE EXCLAIMING IN AWE)
Down! Down! Down!
Get down!
(CAESAR BREATHING HEAVILY)
(RASPING)
(HAMMER CLICKS)
(HUFFING)
(RASPING)
(GUNSHOT)
(CASING CLINKING)
(GUNFIRE)
GUNNER: Take him out!
(MEN CHEERING)
GUNNER: Come on, donkey.
Let's go! Reload!
(PANTING)
OFFICER: Colonel,
are you in there? Colonel!
Just break it down.
Donkey!
Grenade launcher!
(PANTING)
(GROANING)
God damn it, donkey!
Get me the launcher!
(GRUNTING)
(INAUDIBLE)
(GUNSHOT)
(WHISTLING)
(GRUNTING AND PANTING)
(GRUNTING)
(CHITTERING)
(PANTING)
(SOLDIERS CLAMORING)
(CHEERING)
(RUMBLING)
(SOLDIERS YELLING)
(CHITTERING)
Oh, no! Oh, no!
(PANTING)
(GROWLS)
(APES CHITTERING)
(WHOOPING)
(PANTING)
(CHITTERING)
(CHITTERS)
(GRUNTING)
(MAURICE GRUNTING)
Don't worry.
Maurice.
You are all home now.
Apes are strong.
With...
or without me.
(ALL CHITTERING)
Son...
will know...
who...
was...
father.
And what...
Caesar...
did...
for us.
(SIGHS)
(SNIFFLES)
Caesar... (GASPING)
(MAURICE GROWLING MOURNFULLY)